## Interpretable Unified Language Checking

**Published Date:** 2023-04-07T16:47:49Z

**Link:** http://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03728v1

**Abstract:**

  Despite recent concerns about undesirable behaviors generated by large
language models (LLMs), including non-factual, biased, and hateful language, we
find LLMs are inherent multi-task language checkers based on their latent
representations of natural and social knowledge. We present an interpretable,
unified, language checking (UniLC) method for both human and machine-generated
language that aims to check if language input is factual and fair. While
fairness and fact-checking tasks have been handled separately with dedicated
models, we find that LLMs can achieve high performance on a combination of
fact-checking, stereotype detection, and hate speech detection tasks with a
simple, few-shot, unified set of prompts. With the ``1/2-shot'' multi-task
language checking method proposed in this work, the GPT3.5-turbo model
outperforms fully supervised baselines on several language tasks. The simple
approach and results suggest that based on strong latent knowledge
representations, an LLM can be an adaptive and explainable tool for detecting
misinformation, stereotypes, and hate speech.


---

## Advancing Medical Imaging with Language Models: A Journey from N-grams
  to ChatGPT

**Published Date:** 2023-04-11T01:17:11Z

**Link:** http://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04920v1

**Abstract:**

  In this paper, we aimed to provide a review and tutorial for researchers in
the field of medical imaging using language models to improve their tasks at
hand. We began by providing an overview of the history and concepts of language
models, with a special focus on large language models. We then reviewed the
current literature on how language models are being used to improve medical
imaging, emphasizing different applications such as image captioning, report
generation, report classification, finding extraction, visual question
answering, interpretable diagnosis, and more for various modalities and organs.
The ChatGPT was specially highlighted for researchers to explore more potential
applications. We covered the potential benefits of accurate and efficient
language models for medical imaging analysis, including improving clinical
workflow efficiency, reducing diagnostic errors, and assisting healthcare
professionals in providing timely and accurate diagnoses. Overall, our goal was
to bridge the gap between language models and medical imaging and inspire new
ideas and innovations in this exciting area of research. We hope that this
review paper will serve as a useful resource for researchers in this field and
encourage further exploration of the possibilities of language models in
medical imaging.


---

